---
description: Your go-to guide for understanding eSignet terminologies.
---

# Glossary

<table data-full-width="true"><thead><tr><th width="197">Term</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Digital ID Wallet</td><td>A digital ID wallet is a tool that stores and manages personal information and identity credentials securely in a digital format. It helps people keep their information organized and protected. This wallet ensures the safety of personal data and makes it easily accessible when needed.</td></tr><tr><td>Good ID</td><td>Good ID refers to secure, inclusive, and privacy-respecting digital identity systems that prioritize user control, interoperability, open standards, and long-term sustainability. It ensures ethical and trustworthy identity management while protecting individuals’ data.</td></tr><tr><td>Identity Systems</td><td>In the context of digital identity and access management, it refers to the infrastructure and technologies used to manage and verify digital identities, ensuring secure access to online services.</td></tr><tr><td>Identity Verification</td><td>Identity verification is the important process of ensuring that a person is who they claim to be to avail of various government and private sector services.</td></tr><tr><td>Biometric Verification</td><td>Passwordless and based on SBI standards, enabling secure authentication beyond personal devices.</td></tr><tr><td>OTP</td><td>Passwordless but requires phone access, serving as a fallback for biometric rejections.</td></tr><tr><td>Self-Authentication</td><td>Users verify themselves, commonly used online.</td></tr><tr><td>QR Code</td><td>Uses a smartphone selfie and a private key for secure authentication.</td></tr><tr><td>Relying Party</td><td>A relying party is a service provider that relies on an identity provider for authentication and identity verification, allowing users to securely and conveniently access their services. Typically, these are online services, websites, or applications that require user identity verification for access control, personalization, or other reasons. The identity provider often utilizes protocols like <a href="https://openid.net/connect/">OpenID Connect</a>.</td></tr></tbody></table>
