== Login with OTP

++{++% hint style="`success`" %} *Prerequisites:* +
The resident is issued with a unique virtual ID for a country’s
foundation ID. In the below demo application, which is a health portal,
the resident is registered with MOSIP and has a valid UIN or VID. ++{++%
endhint %}

{empty}1. On the portal, the resident clicks on the button *_Sign In
with eSignet_*.

Sign in with eSignet

The login screen appears and the resident is displayed with the options
they can choose for login.

{empty}2. To get started with login with OTP authentication, the
resident clicks on *_Login with OTP_* option.

Login with OTP

{empty}3. The resident needs to enter a valid VID in the *_Enter Your
VID_* text field and check the box '`I’m not a robot`'.

The OTP-based authentication is now secured with a captcha.

Enter your UIN/VID

{empty}4. Next, the resident clicks on the *_Get OTP_* button.

Get OTP Page

{empty}5. The resident receives the OTP on the registered channel
(either by phone or email).

{empty}6. The resident needs to enter the valid OTP received and click
on the *_Verify_* button.

Verify OTP

{empty}7. The resident is then navigated to the Consent page. On this
page, the *Essential* and *Voluntary* claims are displayed.

Voluntary Claims page

++{++% hint style="`info`" %} The consent screen is presented solely to
the resident if consent has not previously been obtained. Additionally,
a timer is incorporated into the Consent screen, allowing the resident
to respond within the designated time frame. If the allotted time
elapses, residents will be redirected to the relying party user
interface. ++{++% endhint %}

{empty}8. The resident is given the option to choose from a list of
Authorized scopes and Voluntary claims. The Essential claims are
mandatory and cannot be modified. A *master toggle button* has been
added to allow residents to select all the options at once if desired.

Vlountary Claims page

{empty}9. The resident should now click the *_Allow_* button. The system
navigates the resident to the *User Profile* page which displays all the
personal information based on the consent provided.

Profile page
