== Credential Holder

A digital wallet that aims to function as a credential holder
application in eSignet must go through the onboarding process as a
relying party. This document outlines the necessary steps for a wallet
to utilize eSignet for downloading credentials issued by a VC Issuer
using
thehttps://openid.net/specs/openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0.html#name-authorization-code-flow[OpenID4VCI
authorization code flow].

The sequence diagram below illustrates the steps involved in the
authorization code flow that are required for downloading a verified
credential.

*Note*:

* Currently, only the `ldp++_++vc` format in the
https://openid.net/specs/openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0.html#name-credential-request-4[Credential
request] is supported.
* Also, the
https://openid.net/specs/openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0.html#name-pre-authorized-code-flow[Pre-Authorized
Code Flow] is not supported as yet.
* The `private-key-jwt` is supported to enforce better security.

++{++% hint style="`info`" %} To gain a better understanding of the VC
Issuance flow in eSignet, please refer to the activity diagram provided
in the
https://docs.inji.io/inji-certify/overview#verifiable-credentials-issuance-through-inji-certify[VC
Issuance Plugin] document. ++{++% endhint %}

Below are the steps for on-boarding a digital wallet as an OAuth Client
and using the eSignet APIs to download verifiable credentials.

==== Onboard as OAuth Client

===== 1. Get a valid redirect deep link

eSignet adheres to the OpenID4VCI wallet-initiated flow. Consequently,
after authentication is completed, eSignet will provide the wallet with
an authorization code. Thus, to integrate, the wallet must first
generate a valid redirect deep link.

===== 2. Get OAuth client credentials

The wallet can utilize the eSignet client management APIs to formally
register as an OAuth client and obtain the necessary client credentials.
This will facilitate their connection with eSignet.

To register the client in our Sandbox environment, click
link:../../../test/try-it-out/[here].

==== *Authorization Code flow*

===== 1. Call the authorized endpoint

In order to initiate the credential issuance flow, the credential holder
needs to authenticate and provide consent. Hence, the wallet needs to
create a button to initiate authentication using eSignet by calling the
"`*_/authorize_*`" endpoint.

This process would redirect the user to a web view of eSignetâ€™s
authentication screen. In this screen, the user will need to
authenticate their identity and give consent to share their credentials.

Upon successful authentication and consent, the authorization code will
be sent back to the wallet application through the designated *redirect
deep link* that has been configured.

===== 2. Retrieving the access token and c++_++nonce

The wallet app now needs to extract the authorization code (auth-code)
parameter in the redirected deep link and exchange the *authorization
code* to get the *access token and c++_++nonce* from the eSignet server.

++{++% hint style="`info`" %} Many OAuth 2.0 client libraries are
available in most programming languages to perform this action. ++{++%
endhint %}

===== 3. Generate key pair

The wallet now needs to generate a key pair for the wallet holder and
use the private key from the key pair to sign the *_c++_++nonce_*. This
will be used to determine that the
https://openid.net/specs/openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0.html#name-proof-types[Proof
of Possession] (PoP) of the private key is the wallet holder.

Corresponding public key is accepted as `did:jwk` in the PoP.

*Note:*

* eSignet does not mandate to create a different key pair for a holder
on each credential request. it is left to the discretion of the wallet
implementer.
* Only `jwt` Proof Type is currently supported.

===== 4. Get the credential using VCI credential API

Now, the wallet can invoke the "`*_/vci/credential_*`" endpoint of
credential service with PoP (Proof of Possession) and share the
credential format metadata to get the Verifiable Credential in the
requested format.

Only the `ldp++_++vc` format in the
https://openid.net/specs/openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0.html#name-credential-request-4[Credential
request] is supported.

Once the credential is obtained, the wallet should be responsible for
securely storing it.
