== Signup and Login with OTP for Verified Claims

eSignet Signup service can be used by users to register and create their
user profiles seamlessly. The below mentioned steps outline the signup
process in detail:

[arabic]
. The user navigates to the portal.
. They click on the *Sign in with eSignet* to initiate the registration
process.

Sign in with eSignet

The login screen appears, displaying the available login options for the
user.

[arabic, start=3]
. To begin the signup process, click on *Sign up with Unified Login*,
located at the bottom of the page.

Sign up with Unified Login

[arabic, start=4]
. Enter your 8-9 digit mobile number in the provided field and click
*Continue* to proceed.

Enter Mobile Details

[arabic, start=5]
. Enter the OTP received on the mobile number and click Verify__.__

Verify with OTP Page

[arabic, start=6]
. A success message confirming the mobile number verification is
displayed. Click *Continue* to proceed with setting up your account.

Verification Sucess Page

Clicking *Continue* redirects the user to a page where they can enter
basic personal details to set up their account.

[arabic, start=7]
. Enter your name and create a password. Ensure you agree to the terms
and conditions by selecting the checkbox, then click *Continue* to
complete the account setup.

Set Up Account Page

[arabic, start=8]
. The user is successfully registered, and a confirmation message is
displayed. The user can now log in using their registered mobile number.
Click *Login* to proceed.

Registered Confirmation Message

[arabic, start=9]
. The login screen appears, displaying the available login options for
the user. To proceed, the user selects the *Login with OTP* option.

Login Page

[arabic, start=10]
. Enter the mobile number used during account setup in the previous
steps and click *Get OTP*.

Get OTP Page

++{++% hint style="`info`" %} *Note:* On the screen, the label for the
text field is displayed as *‘UIN/VID’*. Enter your mobile number in the
text box to proceed. ++{++% endhint %}

[arabic, start=11]
. The user receives the OTP through their registered channel (either via
phone or email). Enter the valid OTP in the provided field and click
*Verify* to proceed.

Enter OTP Page

[arabic, start=12]
. An attention screen with a list of claims is displayed and the user is
asked to confirm to proceed with eKYC. Click on _Proceed_ to continue.

Attention Page

[arabic, start=13]
. The user is now redirected to the page where the steps for the eKYC
process are listed. Click on the _Proceed option_ to continue.

eKYC Process Page

[arabic, start=14]
. Choose an eKYC provider and click on the _Proceed_ option.

eKYC Provider Page

[arabic, start=15]
. Select the I Agree to the ‘Terms & Conditions’ checkbox and click on
the _Proceed_ option to continue.

Terms and Conditions Page

[arabic, start=16]
. A video preview is displayed along with general guidelines to be
followed during the video eKYC process.

Video Preview Page

++{++% hint style="`info`" %} *Note:* Please ensure that the device
camera is enabled. ++{++% endhint %}

[arabic, start=17]
. The eKYC process is initiated please follow the instructions on the
screen to complete the process.

eKYC Process is Initiated Page

Left Side of the Face Scan

Right Side of the Face Scan

[arabic, start=18]
. A verification success message is displayed.

Verification Success Message Page

[arabic, start=19]
. Once the verification process is completed successfully. A consent
screen is displayed to the user to confirm the sharing of the user’s
information. Click on _Allow_ to continue.

eSignet Allow Page

[arabic, start=20]
. Once the consent is given the user data is shared with the service
provider and the user lands on the home page of the service portal with
user details displayed.

This completes the eKYC verification process for the user.
