== End User Guide

In this user guide, we are taking an example of a health services portal
that acts as a relying party using eSignet to provide services and
benefits to the residents. Also, in turn, the residents can quickly
identify themselves using their countryâ€™s foundation ID system (here
MOSIP), thereby avoiding the hassles of repeatedly filling up their
account or personal information.

There are multiple ways in which user authentication can be done.

Before starting with the login flows, let us understand the following
terms:

[arabic]
. *Essential claims:* These are mandatory user information required by
the relying party to be able to provide their services to the residents.
. *Voluntary claims:* They are additional user information that
residents can choose to share to get some add-on features for the
service provided by the relying party.

With this release, we support the login flow for the following
authentication factors:

[arabic]
. link:health-portal/login-with-password.md[Login with Password]
. link:health-portal/login-with-otp.md[Login flow for OTP-based
authentication]
. link:health-portal/login-with-biometrics.md[Login flow for Biometrics
based authentication]
. link:health-portal/login-with-qr-code.md[Login flow with QR code
(Inji)]
. link:health-portal/knowledge-based-authentication.md[Knowledge Based
Identification]
. link:../../../esignet-signup/test/end-user-guide/signup-and-login-with-otp-for-verified-claims.md[Sign
up and Login with OTP for Verified Claims]

____
Note: The screenshots and the steps mentioned in each of the flows are
for demonstration purpose only and are likely to change based on the use
case.
____

In the login flows mentioned above, the authorization code flow is used
to fetch the user profile based on the consent.
